All right.
So let's get going here.
The first thing we should do is just identify what needs to be a flex box.
So I mentioned the entire body is a flex box meaning that we have a three column layout flex direction
column.
Here's our first column our second column is this entire middle section and then our footer is the third
Then inside of this second column we have another flex box and in that one we're working with the Rollei
out most of the time.
At least we have our side of main content and decide those are the flex items.
They started a row but then as we shrink they changed to a column layout and finally the nav bar up
here is also a flex box a very simple one and all we do is set justify content to space between to force
this left and that to the right.
The only two items inside.
So let's get going.
Like I said don't worry too much about the colors right away.
But let's start by setting the body and make sure this is big enough to be flex.
Display flex and then we're going to change it right back to what it looked like.
At least it will appear that it's the same by doing Flex direction column.
So we have a column now or three columns.
We have one here for this header.
Then we have all of this in a column and then our third column here.
So let's give our header and footer of background
and I'll just start with blue.
OK.
So we have these three columns.
Now the next thing we could do.
I'm just going to remove the margin from the body.
Not necessary but I'm going to ask you to do that here briefly.
The next step is let's give our body a min height.
100 pixels or excuse me 100 VH perfect.
And then from here we have a couple of options.
Let's go ahead and work on this middle section.
The main turn that into a flex container and set it's flex direction to row which is the default.
So that's going to be main.
And then we'll just do display flex because this is also a flex contain.
And we're already kind of looking good.
Let's not worry about heights just yet.
Let's focus on how they're distributed.
So the next thing that we could do is add in our flex basis and remember that I mentioned that we want
the main content to take roughly 60 percent and the side in the side roughly 20 percent.
So we can actually do that if I work on an article that's what the main content is inside of.
And I give it a flex basis of 60 percent
can see doesn't have a background just yet but it takes up all of that.
So let's give it a background to read.
Cool.
Now we have side now of an aside.
So let's do the same thing now.
And I'm going to do them separately just so we can get them different colors even though they're going
to have the same flex basis of 20 percent.
But I will make the Nav. orange and then I'll make the aside.
Yeah.
Next we can tackle the ordering.
Because what we want is the side have to be on the left to come first before the main content.
And this layout.
So the easiest way to do that is to go to the Nev. side enough and just give it order.
Negative one.
Now that's not the only way you could do it.
You could have gone and given an order of 1 and then Article order of 2 and then the a side order order
of three or any consecutive numbers.
Or they don't even have to be consecutive.
And the numbers that are larger than the previous but negative one is the easiest way to send it to
the beginning.
OK.
Now let's tackle some height.
Let's give this main section this.
All of this here a height so that the main and we're going to do men high 800 X ok but also openness
in a full page.
So we can take a look at what we have.
All right.
Oh I'm also weighs in.
So I'll keep this at 100 percent OK.
So you can see what we have right now.
So we're getting closer.
Let's make the top and bottom nabs larger as well.
So we'll come in here.
We have a header and footer.
Let's just give those a min height of 100 x.
We could also just to be clear do flex basis 100 peaks because remember they're in a column.
So height is going to be flex basis and we could do the same thing instead of Monheit 100.
We could do flex bases.
Now the next thing we should tackle is how it behaves when things start to shrink and I'm actually fine
with how it's flexing so far up until this point I guess are a sides inside now of our taking up kind
of a lot of space compared to the main.
That's OK.
All I really care about is the break point where you want it to stack.
So that break point is 640 pixels.
So let's come down here and find that we have are at media all and we're going to do Max with 640.
OK.
So whatever we put in here will apply when it is less than 640 pixels and all we want to do is switch
this main right here the flex container from display or from flex direction row to flex direction column.
So we'll select the main flex direction column.
Nothing changes but of course we come here right at 6:40.
There we go.
Now let's take a look at what's actually happening.
It's kind of bizarre.
It's all taking up the tiniest amount of space possible.
And that's because we haven't assigned any flex growth to anything.
So let's come back here and let's go to our article and give it a flex grow of one.
Everything else has zero by default.
So as we shrink it notice now what happens.
Our main content takes up all the available space but we may want to give our side the side.
The side a bit of space as well.
Those are kind of small.
So maybe we want that proportion to be something like three to one potentially.
So we'll go here I can just copy this for now we will refactor this just to be clear.
I'll go to my Nav. and the aside and I'll give them Flixster of one and then the article will get Flick's
grow of three.
So it takes three times as much if the available space.
So here we go and that looks good enough to me.
You could change that around.
You know we could do something like five times as much space.
You can see kind of like that one more actually so maybe I'll leave that.
But anyway the idea is you know we're changing that proportion.
How about for.
I think it's a nice middle ground.
Perfect.
OK.
Next up let's tackle the issue of the order.
Very simple to change this.
All we want is this side enough to go back where it belongs which is after the main content because
by default that's the normal order.
So we actually have to do is at that breakpoint if we select that side of which is just a Nev. right
here and all we have to do is change to order to zero which everything else has an order of zero in
that container by default we didn't change them.
We only gave it negative 1.
So by sending it back to zero it goes to the normal order.
As you can see here perfect side of the side footer looks good.
You can see it over here you can go to 100 percent.
All right the last flex boxy thing to take care of is the NAVs here.
So it's hard to see but we have these two lengths.
And what we want is one on the left one on the right and they are centered vertically as well.
So tackling that just need to make our head her fluxbox so we can select our head or somewhere.
Let's do it up top.
Display flex the default flex direction is fine.
But now we set justify content to be space between and all that space is put between the two.
So we get shoved to the left shove to the right now to make them vertically centered.
What's the name of that property line items center.
There we go.
The monks are a bit hard to see with this color.
We'll come back to that in a bit.
If you really care to see me change the colors.
All right.
So the last thing that we could do is go through here and just update and sort of doing Flex bases in
Flex grow can come in and just do flex and use those properties so we can change this to be 4 0 for
shrink and then 60 percent and get rid of that and that.
OK.
Same thing here we can do flex 1.
Let's have it shrink 1 and then we'll also give it 20 percent perfect.
So we can get rid of that and that and not do the exact same thing for the side.
So just a shorthand to shorten that up a little bit cool.
Make sure nothing has changed.
I'm zoomed in make sure that the real size.
Those are nice breakpoint looks good.
Now of has the requirements you got these three sections of the same height and we have our footer.
One other thing that you might notice is that when we get to our mobile layout I need to refresh your
your term mobile.
We have the space in Swelp where our are is coming up and what we can do to fix that.
If we inspected this we would see that our main section this section right here in the middle when we
go to this vertical lay out it's not taking up all the available space.
We have this empty space here inside the container.
Well how do we divvy up available space.
How do we tell things to grow.
We use flex growth so we can do that all we want to do is go to our main jobs right here inside the
media query and set flex grow to one so it can be confusing because we're talking about multiple nested
containers.
But what we're referring to is the space that this thing takes up.
So remember it's in a column layout already we're not talking about the main flex box we're talking
about the main flex item.
So that makes sense.
So this row as we shrink becomes shorter and we have more space and we can tell you to refresh the page.
You can tell it to use up all available space because the header and footer don't have flex Grosset
to anything is set to zero by default.
So by setting this to 5 0 1 it grows to take up all that space.
Okay.
So pretty much all we have left if you care is cosmetic things which honestly doesn't really look much
better here.
But if you are a stickler and you want to make it look exactly like this.
I'll show you that.
Otherwise we're done.
OK.
So if you do care all that we do is give everything a border radius margin and some padding.
So I'll just do that.
Maybe here.
So I'm going to select everything inside the main That's the easiest way of doing that as well as the
header and footer and I'm going to give it a margin of 4 pixels not 40.
I'll give it padding 5 pixels all around and also give it a shorter radius of 7
or 7 pixels.
OK so all we really have left if you care the backgrounds and some of these colors and the font.
And like I said really not that important but if you do really want to see it I'll just fast forward
and show you the colors as I change them.
OK.
So I gave the article a background ECF 0 EF 1 in case you're wondering.
Then I gave the nav background 9 5 8 5 8 6.
The aside background that blue and the header and footer background as well then I changed the background
of the body to make it darker.
And change to font.
And finally I gave our anchor tags no text decoration and the colored black that would get rid of that
link styling and coloring the visited link color.
So if we take a look now does not look good.
I'm not claiming it does but it matches what I wrote the specification to look like.
Cool and I'm zoomed in.
So if out we go looking good enough good enough.
All right so that demonstrates some of the power of Xbox we have three flex containers here a bunch
of nested things you know media queries.
Very simple.
We don't have content really in here but it's as easy as filling in the blanks hopefully changing colors
making things look nicer but the layout works very well.
It is awesome.
All right.
We're done with that.